README.md, before:

# SimBCR
Python script for simulating recombinant receptor 3D structure in a fully autonomous fashion.

> This is still an experimental build, once this project will be over a full documentation and contribution pipeline will be released.

## Current capability
1. Simulate variable regions (check literature \[1]) and join them with constant regions
2. Dynamically find CDR3 region
3. Autonomous protein folding (check literature \[2])
4. Autonomous pdb rendering via py3dmol and jupyter-notebook
5. Two different ways (rainbow and CDR) to color your antibody once folding is done 

## Installation
> WARNING: these are the minimum steps needed to run the CURRENT default behaviour of SimBCR. No other function is being supported 

1. In order to get all the necessary python packages run
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

2. You will need to install R and the immuneSIM package. Please refer to their [installation section](https://github.com/GreiffLab/immuneSIM). Assure yourself of adding R to your system PATH variables.
3. Finally, clone this repo or download and extract the raw files. 

## Usage
Run main.py (from the root directory of the project) with 

`python main.py`

If everything runs smoothly, a web page should open with your folded heavy chain (only the FAB portion) colored by CDR (red is CDR1, green is CDR2 and blue is CDR3).
Please keep in mind that the default settings simulate a human IgG heavy chain.

## Develop timeline from 04/12/23 on:
- [x] Simulate variable regions with this [R project](https://github.com/GreiffLab/immuneSIM)
- [x] AlphaFold. Previously using [SWISS-MODEL](https://swissmodel.expasy.org/interactive) in order to get the 3d structure from the aminoacid sequence. Switched to ESMatlas API (even if it does not support more than 400AA prediction. Consider hybrid approach)
- [ ] CDR1 and CDR2 are still find in a hard coded, literature-based method. Is good enough? 
- [ ] Dreaming of a custom OpenGL-based 3D renderer for custom display of folded protein. Currently using py3dmol with hacky jupiternotebook trick (check show_3d.py and render_pdb.ipynb)


# Literature and resource references
1. https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/36/11/3594/5802461
2. https://esmatlas.com/about#api

Commit message:

Input parsing added and refactor of ApiHelper (now ProteinFolders)

README.md, after:

# SimBCR
Python script for simulating recombinant receptor 3D structure in a fully autonomous fashion.

> This is still an experimental build, once this project will be over a full documentation and contribution pipeline will be released.

## Current capability
1. Simulate variable regions (check literature \[1]) and join them with constant regions
2. Dynamically find CDR3 region
3. Autonomous protein folding (check literature \[2])
4. Autonomous pdb rendering via py3dmol and jupyter-notebook
5. Two different ways (rainbow and CDR) to color your antibody once folding is done 

## Installation
> WARNING: these are the minimum steps needed to run the CURRENT default behaviour of SimBCR. No other function is being supported 

1. In order to get all the necessary python packages run
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

2. You will need to install R and the immuneSIM package. Please refer to their [installation section](https://github.com/GreiffLab/immuneSIM). Assure yourself of adding R to your system PATH variables.
3. Finally, clone this repo or download and extract the raw files. 

## Usage
### Default 
Run main.py (from the root directory of the project) with 

`python main.py`

If everything runs smoothly, a web page should open with your folded heavy chain (only the FAB portion) colored by CDR (red is CDR1, green is CDR2 and blue is CDR3).
Please keep in mind that the default settings simulate a human IgG heavy chain.
### Custom inputs
Right now simBCR allows you to customize your input in two different ways: simple mode and developer mode.
Full detail on parameters and further documentation can be found [here](https://immunesim.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameters.html).
#### Custom inputs: simple mode
In order to run a custom simulation in the easiest way possible, provide the following input when launching main.py

`python main.py  --number_of_seqs 100 --species hs --receptor tr --chain b --name_repertoire my_custom_sim`

This will allow you to simulate a human TCR-B chain and save it as a "name_repertoire".csv file.
The default way of running SimBCR translates to:

`python main.py  --number_of_seqs 10 --species hs --receptor ig --chain h --name_repertoire hs-igh-sim`
#### Custom inputs: developer mode
If you really want to dig deeper into customization you can edit the `InputParser` instance in `main.py` by adding any of the available keys present in `InputParser.default_main_R_args` (check `InputParser.py`) as a kwarg. For example, replacing the current creation of `InputParser` with `
InputParser(args, smh_mode = "naive", smh_prob = 100/350)` will cause the simulation of a variable region where each 350 nucleotides 100 will get mutated in a random way.
Keep in mind that the key (smh_mode here) need to be present in `InputParser.default_main_R_args` and the value ("naive" here) should be treated as a raw R input.
Using custom inputs in this way is NOT recommended and, as stated above, please refer to the [original documentation](https://immunesim.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameters.html) if you need more information. 


## Develop timeline from 09/12/23 on:
- [x] Simulate variable regions with this [R project](https://github.com/GreiffLab/immuneSIM)
- [x] AlphaFold. Previously using [SWISS-MODEL](https://swissmodel.expasy.org/interactive) in order to get the 3d structure from the aminoacid sequence. Switched to ESMatlas API (even if it does not support more than 400AA prediction. Consider hybrid approach)
- [ ] CDR1 and CDR2 are still find in a hard coded, literature-based method. Is good enough? 
- [ ] Dreaming of a custom OpenGL-based 3D renderer for custom display of folded protein. Currently, I am using py3dmol with hacky jupiter-notebook trick (check show_3d.py and render_pdb.ipynb)


# Literature and resource references
1. [ImmuneSIM article](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/36/11/3594/5802461) and its [GitHub repo](https://github.com/GreiffLab/immuneSIM)
2. [ESMatlas API](https://esmatlas.com/about#api)
